welcome back to natural language
processing we're going to continue now
with the next topic in parsing
specifically something that is called
prepositional phrase attachment let me
remind you what the pantry back
representation of a sentence looks like
this is the famous sentence number one
of the penn treebank it represents the
sentence PR winkin 61 years old will
join the board as a non-executive
director november 29 as you can see are
the lisp type structure it represents
the syntactic structure of the sentence
we have a noun phrase that is marked as
a subject that is namely PR Vinc and 61
years old and then we have a verb phrase
that consists of we'll join the board as
a non-executive director November 29 how
many prepositional phrases do we have in
this sentence well one obvious one is as
a non-executive director the word as is
a preposition in the penn treebank tag
set prepositions are marked with the
code I M so the question here is it does
the preposition as a non-executive
director modify board or does it modify
join in general prepositional phrases
can modify either the noun that is
closest to them or the verb before that
now the second sentence of the penn
treebank is mr. lincoln is chairman of
Elsevier and v comma the Dutch
Publishing Group so that now the
prepositional phrase here is of Elsevier
and V the preposition is off so where
does this one attach does it attach to
the nearest now specifically chairman or
does it attach to is well prepositional
phrase attachment is the problem of
automatically figuring out this
attachment so there are two types of
propositional phrase attachment the
first kind is called high attachment or
verbal attachment that's when the
prepositional phrase as director
attaches to the nearest verb in this
case join
and the second example is low attachment
or nominal attachment in this example of
Elsevier modifies chairman what does it
mean to modify chairman it just means
that the Chairman is associated with
Elsevier the verb is is not associated
Elsevier just like in the first example
as director is the way in which the
person joined the board it is not a
modification of board let's now look at
the phrase structure of a sentence that
includes a prepositional phrase Jane
caught the butterfly with the net as you
can see with the net is a prepositional
phrase that in this case modifies the
verb caught it does not modify but a
file is actually denote the way in which
the butterfly was caught if for any
reason the butterfly was carrying the
net we would have the prepositional
phrase with the net being listed under
the noun phrase for butterfly let's look
at some examples of prepositional phrase
attachment in real life the first
example is Lucy's plane leaves Detroit
on Monday is this high or low attachment
well it doesn't
on Monday doesn't modify the troit it
modifies leaves so that is high
attachment the second example Jenna met
Mike at the concert is this higher law
well it is high again because at the
concert modifies the verb meet it
doesn't modify Mike in the third example
this painting must cost millions of
dollars in this case of dollars modifies
Millions rather than cost so we have low
attachment so now I have question for
you in each of the following six
examples can you tell me if we have a
case of high attachment or low
attachment I'm going to heat the first
two and you can read the rest on your
own Alicia ate spaghetti from Italy
Alicia ate spaghetti with meatballs can
you think of the six attachments and
I'll give you the answers on the next
slide okay so the question was can you
classify the six sentences into high and
low attachment well the answers are in
front of you the first one is Alicia ate
spaghetti for meat
this is a low attachment because from
Italy modified spaghetti Alicia
ate spaghetti with meatballs again most
likely this is a low attachment because
meatballs modified spaghetti and then we
have four instances of high attachment
Alicia ate spaghetti with a fork even
though the preposition is the same as in
the previous example we have an instance
of high attachment because with the fork
modifies the verb ate the next example
is probably a little funny
Alicia ate spaghetti with Justin we
definitely want with Justin to modify
eight which is the verb and not
spaghetti in which case Alicia would
have eaten Justin along with the
spaghetti the fifth example Alicia ate
spaghetti with delight we again have an
instance of high attachment with the
light modifies the verb 8 and finally
Alicia ate spaghetti on Friday we have
an instance of high attachment because
on Friday modifies Alicia a few weeks
ago I was reading the newspaper and I
came across an actual headline that
includes the very biggest prepositional
phrase police shoot man with box cutters
this is a really funny example because
it's really difficult to shoot a man
using a box cutter box cutters are
typically not used to shoot people so
the interpretation here was fairly
simple for human it was clear that it
was the man who was carrying the box
cutters not the police using the box
cutters to shoot the man with so in this
example we have two possible syntactic
interpretations of the sentence the
first one is the correct one in that one
with box cutters modifies the man so in
that sense the man was carrying the box
cutters the second example which I have
deliberately marked with a question mark
on the left which indicates that this is
a question of bow interpretation of the
sentence we have with box cutters at the
same level as the verb shoot which is
incorrect and you can see that the two
parse trees look very different the one
on the left has with box cutter as part
of the noun phrase man and the one on
the right the incorrect
one has with box cutters at the same
level should okay so
positional phase attachment is a very
interesting problem in natural language
processing because first it is important
for parsing sentences and tactically and
second because it's a very nice
introduction to the problem of binary
classification so I'm going to use this
opportunity to introduce binary
classification on this power so how do
we formulate this problem as the binary
classification problem well it's fairly
straightforward we have a set of
instances each of which consists of an
input and an output the input is a
prepositional phrase and possibly the
surrounding context around it the rest
of the sentence in the output is just a
binary label the convention is to use 0
for high attachment and 1 for low
attachment now in practice we don't look
at the context surrounding the
prepositional phrase in fact we don't
look at the prepositional phrase in its
entirety either in practice the context
only consists of four words the
preposition itself the verb before the
preposition the noun before the
preposition and the noun after the
preposition so for example the sentence
from the penn treebank about PR lincoln
joining the board as a non-executive
director this sentence will be only
represented as the 4-tuple join board as
director why do you think we only keep
those four words as the representation
of the instance and ignore everything
else think about it I'll share the
answer the next slide so the question
was why do we only represent a
prepositional phrase instance by the
four features preposition noun 1 noun 2
and verb wow the two reasons the first
one is that we don't really need the
rest of the context most of the
information in fact almost all of it
needed to classify prepositional phrase
as either high or low attachment turns
out to be contained in those 4 features
and the second reason is that only using
consistent tuples of four features
allows us to have a
more consistent machine learning a porch
so let's look at some sample tuples from
the penn treebank this table shows you
about ten examples the first column
indicates the sentence from which those
prepositional phrases were extracted and
then you have our for each instance our
four features the verb the first noun
the preposition in the second noun and
the last color shows you if that
particular tuple should be classified as
high attachment or low attachment and
remind you I want to remind you that
high attachment is verb and low
attachment is now so let's look at an
example here led team of researchers out
researchers modifies team it doesn't
modify led therefore we're going to
label it as a non attachment so it turns
out that the literature in linguistics
and in particular in psycholinguistics
has disagreement on how humans do
attachment in sentences there is one
theory by Kimbo that favor is the
support right association whoa it says
that given a new phrase and two choices
of attachment people tend to attach the
new phrase to the most recent to the
rightmost portion of the sentence so
this theory favor is low attachment
however there's an alternative
interpretation called the minimum
attachment principle by Fraser that
favor is an attachment that results in
the syntactic tree of the sentence
having fewer additional syntactic nodes
so therefore a favoring high attachment
if you remember in the previous slide
the diagram that corresponds to high
attachment had fewer internal nodes
compared to the one that has low
attachment well in practice it turns out
that none of those are theories is
correct there are instances of both high
and low attachment in VO occurring
our human text let's look now at the
data set that is used in most of the
research on prepositional phrase
attachment I'm going to refer to this
data set as RRR
in 94 where the TRF correspond to the
initials of the three researchers who
first published it this data set
includes about 28,000 prepositional
phrases extracted from the penn treebank
they are divided into three groups
20,000 used for training and they're
asked to use for testing the
representation used in this data set
only consists of the four features in
the table the verb that to mouth and the
preposition so for example the sentence
that you should have presented as bring
attention to problem is actually the
sentence although preliminary findings
were reported more than a year ago the
latest results appear in today's New
England Journal of Medicine a forum
likely to bring your attention to the
problem it should be pretty obvious that
most of the sentence is not irrelevant
to the decision of prepositional phrase
attachments which is in this case how to
classify the prepositional phrase to the
problem so we're going to introduce now
supervised learning as a method for
dealing with a prepositional phrase
attachment and specifically I want to
focus on how to evaluate supervised
learning so here's how it works we take
a set of instances for example the
20,000 from the RRR dataset we manually
label it so we ask human evaluators to
read each of those instances and label
each of them as either high or low
attachment then we split the labeled
data into training and a testing set
then we look at the training data to
find patterns something that we can
encode as rules to use automatically to
label the rest of the data we apply that
in these patterns to the testing set and
we evaluate the accuracy of this
algorithm using a metric called
surprisingly enough accuracy accuracy is
the percentage of correct labels that
the algorithm has a sign on the testing
data so if the correct label for a
certainty PO is V and the system labels
it as V we score a point we also score a
point
if the correct label is n and we label
it as n yeah two cases when the label is
V and we mislabeled as n and vice versa
we actually don't score any points so
typical performance using this accuracy
metric would be let's say 80 percent if
the two classes are equally likely and
we randomly guess we would get on
average of 50% accuracy so it is very
important when you come up with a new
algorithm for binary classification
problem to be able to compare it using a
reasonable evaluation metrics such as
accuracy with a simple baseline method
so what is the simplest baseline method
in this example can you think about it
Wow the simplest supervised baseline
method is to find the most common class
or label in the training data assuming
that one of them is more frequent which
is almost always going to be the case
unless there is a perfectly go split
then we're going to use this more common
label to an assign it to all the
instances of the testing data set in a
few minutes we're going to look at
different algorithms and compare them
with this baseline